Demand- the quantity of a product that consumers are able and willing to purchase at varous prices over a period of time. ex-phone

effective demand- refers to the level of demand that is supported by consumers purchasing power and willingness to buy a product at a given price.

demand curve-the relationship between the price of a product and the quantity demanded by consumers in a market.

move along the demand curve- refers to a change in the quantity demanded of a product due to a change in its price, while other factors remain constant.

change in demand- refers to a shift in the entire demand curve for a product or service.
 
ILAPTIMERS 
PRATNESTS

increase in a price of a good can result in two effects
1.substituition effect
2.income effect

substituition effect- the effect results in consumer behavior that occurs when the price of a product changes relative to the price of the other similiar goods or alternatives.

income effect- it describes how changes in income influence the quantity and quality of goods and services that consumers demand.

SUPPLY- meaning to the quantity of goods or services that producers or suppliers are willing and able to offer for in the market at different price levels.

profit-refers to the financial gain or surplus that a business or individual earns from their activities after deducting all expenses, costs and taxes.

change in supply- a shift in the entire supply curve representing a change in the quantity of goods that producers are willing and able to offer for at different price levels.

price- refers to the monetary value assigned to a product that is offered in the market, also shows the amount of money the buyer has to pay to accquire the product.

equilibrium price and clearing price- meaning the price at which the quanitity demanded by consumers matches the quantity supplied by producers resulting in a state of balance in the market which basically means equal demand and supply.

disequlibrium- opposite of equilibrium. demand and supply are not equal.

surplus- an excess of supply over demand, a situation where the quantity of a product or service supplied in the market exceeds the quantity demanded by consumers at a given prive.

shortage-an excess of demand over supply, the quantity of a product or service demanded by consumers exceeds the quantity supplied by producers at a given price.


ukskkskkakdmk


jsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjs













